Hey guys welcome back to the course in this lecture we're going to talk about one of the most important
things in contracting and in outsourcing.
So this thing is something I tell people all the time and I see people making this huge mistake.
It's I mean you can very easily slip into and so you need to be very aware before you can go into the
project.
Your response rate sets the tone for the entire relationship.
Now let me explain what I mean when you first post a project someone sends you a message.
You respond they respond you respond.
How much time is in between you hearing a message and you are responding.
Now this is a very well-known sociological phenomenon when you use text messages when you use e-mails
when you post in a group whatever it may be.
If you signal a delay the other person will typically match that delay.
Now this is especially true in freelancer relationships.
You are the employer.
And so it's up to you to set the tone for the relationship.
Are you going to be very casual.
Are you going to be very serious.
Do you require lots of information.
Do you respond quickly.
There's a lot of different aspects and variations to every single working arrangement.
So a freelancer needs to adapt to the employer.
And if you signal something to them say you're signaling casual language they'll most likely respond
in casual language.
That's just a natural order of things.
Now response rate works in the same exact way.
If you take a day to respond you're freelancers going to take a day to respond you take a week to respond
your freelancer is going to take a week to respond.
Why.
Because you're signaling to them that it's OK to literally take a week before responding to something.
Now you might not think that's an issue but this is something that grows very very quickly and it becomes
a problem very very quickly.
If you say respond within a day during the first week and the second week it takes you two days.
Third it takes you three days.
What's going to end up happening is that every single subsequent week you're going to have your communication
speed is going to slow down to the point at which you're literally commuting four times a month.
That is incredibly slow for virtually any project.
There have been many many cases where I had a project that had I had a responsive relationship and we
were communicating within 30 minutes of each other.
We would have been done in a day but because I made the mistake of not responding within two days I
set the tone for the relationship and the project took a month.
So now I mean think about it you really can't blame the freelancer for doing that again.
They adapt to every single employer every single employer is different.
So it's important for you to set the tone early and to show them that you care about the project so
they should too.
There's also a negative effect that in general they're not going to take the project as seriously if
you're not on the ball with it subconsciously signals to them that this is not particularly an important
thing to do.
It might be a side project maybe they're doing this outside of their expertise that is generally how
someone's going to think about it.
So I can't stress this enough.
I mean it even gets to the point where if you're going to launch something a launch a poster project
and you're going to try to get it done within a week don't post it on a day that you know you're not
going to be able to respond quickly don't even posted on the weekend if you're busy on weekends.
Why.
Because at the very beginning if you take 12 hours to respond you've now set the tone for a 12 hour
response rate.
You might be OK with that.
Right.
And if you are that's perfectly fine but there's no reason why you couldn't just limit that limit the
cycle time and limit the project time in totality.
OK.
So take it seriously.
Be conscious when you post a job and make sure that you respond as quickly as possible your projects
will get done in a fraction of the time and you're freelancers are going to take this project a lot
more seriously.
They asked for a piece of information and you get it to them they're going to get back to you in the
same expediency that you gave to them.
So set the tone correctly have a successful project see in the next lecture.